doc/sessions/PROJECT_REVIEW_2025-10-28.md, before:

# AT-bot Project Review and Strategic Plan
**Date**: October 28, 2025  
**Status**: Phase 1 Core Features Complete ✅  
**Next Phase**: Phase 2 - Core Features + MCP Integration  

---

## Executive Summary

AT-bot is a **POSIX-compliant CLI tool for Bluesky/AT Protocol automation** with a growing MCP (Model Context Protocol) server for AI agent integration. The project has successfully completed Phase 1 with core authentication, social features, and MCP infrastructure in place.

**Current Status**: 
- ✅ Phase 1 Complete (v0.1.0 - v0.3.0)
- 🔄 4 commits ahead of origin/main
- 📦 MCP server built and ready for npm install/build
- 🧪 10/10 CLI test suites passing (100%)
- 📚 Comprehensive documentation (README, PLAN, AGENTS, STYLE, TODO, MCP guides)

---

## Project Overview

### Core Components

**1. CLI Tool (`bin/at-bot`)**
- Main entry point for user interactions
- Commands: login, logout, whoami, post, feed, follow, etc.
- Session management with AES-256-CBC encryption
- Dual-path library loading (dev & installed modes)
- 27 core functions implemented

**2. Core Library (`lib/atproto.sh`)**
- ~1,850 lines of reusable shell functions
- AT Protocol API communication
- Session management and credentials handling
- Post creation/management, feed reading
- Profile management, follow/unfollow, search
- Media upload, block/mute operations

**3. Supporting Libraries**
- `lib/crypt.sh` - AES-256-CBC encryption for credentials
- `lib/cli-utils.sh` - Error handling and input validation
- `lib/config.sh` - Configuration management
- `lib/doc.sh` - Documentation compilation

**4. MCP Server (`mcp-server/`)**
- TypeScript/Node.js implementation
- 27 MCP tools across 8 modules:
  - Auth (4 tools)
  - Content/Engagement (5+5 tools)
  - Social (6 tools)
  - Search (3 tools)
  - Media (4 tools)
  - Profile (4 tools)
  - Feed (1 tool)
- Stdio communication with MCP protocol
- Shell executor for AT-bot CLI integration

**5. Testing & Quality**
- 10 CLI test suites (86+ tests)
- Manual test helper (`tests/manual_test.sh`)
- MCP tool validation tests
- 100% test pass rate
- Shell completion scripts (bash/zsh)

**6. Documentation**
- Strategic docs: README, PLAN, AGENTS, STYLE, TODO
- Feature guides: CONFIG, DEBUG, SECURITY, TESTING, etc.
- MCP guides: QUICKSTART, TOOLS, INTEGRATION
- Session summaries and progress reports
- Documentation build system (`scripts/build-docs.sh`)

---

## What's Complete ✅

### Phase 1 Achievements (v0.1.0 - v0.3.0)

**Authentication & Security**
- ✅ Secure login/logout
- ✅ Session persistence with AES-256-CBC encryption
- ✅ Optional credential saving (base64 obfuscation for dev)
- ✅ Backward compatibility for old base64 credentials
- ✅ Debug mode support (plaintext for development)
- ✅ File permissions enforced (600 on sensitive files)

**Core Social Features**
- ✅ Post creation (text posts)
- ✅ Timeline/feed reading with limit support
- ✅ Follow/unfollow users
- ✅ Get followers/following lists
- ✅ Block/unblock users
- ✅ Mute/unmute users
- ✅ Post engagement (like, repost, reply, delete)
- ✅ Media upload (images, videos)
- ✅ Profile management (view, edit, avatars)
- ✅ Search (posts, users)

**MCP Server (22+ Tools)**
- ✅ Complete MCP architecture designed
- ✅ 27 tools implemented across 8 modules
- ✅ Stdio communication ready
- ✅ Tool discovery and execution
- ✅ Error handling and response formatting
- ✅ Shell executor for AT-bot CLI integration

**Developer Experience**
- ✅ Shell completions (bash/zsh)
- ✅ Enhanced error handling with helpful messages
- ✅ Command-specific help system
- ✅ Input validation functions
- ✅ Consistent error codes for scripting

**Documentation & Quality**
- ✅ Documentation build system with config
- ✅ Comprehensive test coverage (100% pass rate)
- ✅ Security guidelines documented
- ✅ Testing procedures documented
- ✅ MCP integration guide
- ✅ Contributing guidelines
- ✅ Project roadmap (PLAN.md)
- ✅ Agent integration patterns (AGENTS.md)

---

## What's Next - Phase 2 Priority Items

### High Priority (Blocker for v0.4.0 release)

#### 1. **MCP Server npm Build & Deployment** ⏳
**Status**: Code complete, needs setup  
**Work**:
- [ ] Run `npm install` in mcp-server/
- [ ] Run `npm run build` to compile TypeScript
- [ ] Verify dist/ directory created
- [ ] Test MCP server startup: `npm start`
- [ ] Create .npmrc for publishing
- [ ] Test with Claude/Copilot MCP client
- [ ] Publish to npm registry (@atbot/mcp-server)

**Estimated Effort**: 2-4 hours  
**Impact**: Enables AI agent integration; major milestone

#### 2. **JSON Output Format** ⏳
**Status**: Planned, not started  
**Work**:
- [ ] Add `--format json` flag to all commands
- [ ] Implement JSON output in lib/atproto.sh functions
- [ ] Update bin/at-bot to handle format flag
- [ ] Add examples to documentation
- [ ] Write tests for JSON output
- [ ] Document output schemas

**Estimated Effort**: 6-8 hours  
**Impact**: Enables scripting and automation; required for Phase 2

#### 3. **Debian Package (.deb)** ⏳
**Status**: Planned, not started  
**Work**:
- [ ] Create debian/ directory with package config
- [ ] Write control file with metadata
- [ ] Create install/postinst scripts
- [ ] Set up build pipeline
- [ ] Test installation and uninstallation
- [ ] Create repository configuration
- [ ] Publish to PPA or GitHub releases

**Estimated Effort**: 4-6 hours  
**Impact**: Easier distribution for Linux users

#### 4. **Homebrew Formula** ⏳
**Status**: Planned, not started  
**Work**:
- [ ] Create homebrew-at-bot tap
- [ ] Write formula.rb with version/checksums
- [ ] Test installation: `brew install p3nGu1nZz/at-bot/at-bot`
- [ ] Document tap installation
- [ ] Set up auto-update mechanism

**Estimated Effort**: 3-4 hours  
**Impact**: Easier distribution for macOS users

#### 5. **Documentation Generation** ⏳
**Status**: Build system ready, needs execution  
**Work**:
- [ ] Run `scripts/build-docs.sh` to test output
- [ ] Fix any pandoc issues (YAML parsing)
- [ ] Generate HTML documentation
- [ ] Review output layout and styling
- [ ] Publish to GitHub Pages or docs.atbot.io
- [ ] Add to CI/CD pipeline

**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 hours  
**Impact**: Better documentation accessibility

### Medium Priority (v0.4.0 - v0.5.0)

#### 6. **Batch Operations**
- [ ] Implement batch_post for multiple posts
- [ ] Implement batch_follow for bulk following
- [ ] Implement batch_schedule for scheduled operations
- [ ] Add file input support (JSON/CSV)

**Estimated Effort**: 8-10 hours

#### 7. **Advanced Configuration**
- [ ] Enhanced configuration file support (~/.config/at-bot/config.json)
- [ ] Environment variable interpolation
- [ ] Profile management (work/personal accounts)
- [ ] Preset commands for common workflows

**Estimated Effort**: 6-8 hours

#### 8. **Rate Limiting & Retry Logic**
- [ ] Intelligent rate limit handling
- [ ] Exponential backoff for retries
- [ ] Rate limit status checking
- [ ] Queue system for bulk operations

**Estimated Effort**: 6-8 hours

#### 9. **Caching System**
- [ ] Response caching for frequently accessed data
- [ ] Cache invalidation strategy
- [ ] Cache statistics and debugging
- [ ] Configurable cache TTL

**Estimated Effort**: 4-6 hours

#### 10. **Docker Support**
- [ ] Create Dockerfile for containerized usage
- [ ] Docker Compose for development
- [ ] Multi-stage builds for optimization
- [ ] Publish to Docker Hub

**Estimated Effort**: 3-4 hours

---

## Current Code Status

### Git Status
```
Branch: main (4 commits ahead of origin/main)
Untracked: doc/sessions/SESSION_SUMMARY_2025-10-28_PHASE1_COMPLETE.md

Recent commits:
- 62348bf feat: add documentation build system
- aa50cbc feat(docs): implement documentation compilation
- 20b37ad feat: add shell completion and enhanced CLI
- 92a7642 docs: update MCP documentation
```

### File Structure Summary
```
AT-bot/
├── bin/               # CLI executable
├── lib/               # Core libraries (1,850+ lines)
├── mcp-server/        # MCP server (TypeScript)
│   ├── src/           # Source code (27 tools)
│   ├── dist/          # Compiled output (ready)
│   ├── package.json   # npm config (not installed)
│   └── tests/         # Tool validation
├── tests/             # CLI tests (10 suites, all passing)
├── scripts/           # Build/installation scripts
├── doc/               # Documentation
│   ├── sessions/      # Session summaries
│   ├── progress/      # Progress reports
│   └── *.md           # Feature guides
├── examples/          # Usage examples
└── [root docs]        # PLAN, AGENTS, STYLE, etc.
```

### Test Coverage
```
✅ test_cli_basic         - Basic CLI operations
✅ test_config            - Configuration handling
✅ test_encryption        - AES-256-CBC encryption
✅ test_follow            - Follow/unfollow
✅ test_followers         - Followers/following lists
✅ test_library           - Core library functions
✅ test_media_upload      - Media operations
✅ test_post_feed         - Post/feed operations
✅ test_profile           - Profile management
✅ test_search            - Search functionality

Total: 86+ tests, 100% pass rate
```

---

## Key Metrics & Statistics

### Code Statistics
- **Core library**: ~1,850 lines (lib/atproto.sh)
- **CLI tool**: ~359 lines (bin/at-bot)
- **Supporting libraries**: ~600 lines
- **MCP server**: ~1,200 lines (TypeScript)
- **Test coverage**: 86+ tests across 10 suites
- **Total shell functions**: 27+
- **MCP tools**: 27 across 8 modules
- **Documentation pages**: 15+ markdown files

### Architecture Quality
- ✅ POSIX-compliant
- ✅ Dual-path library loading maintained
- ✅ Modular tool organization
- ✅ Consistent error handling
- ✅ Security-first design
- ✅ Comprehensive documentation

### Dependencies
- **Core**: curl, jq (minimal!)
- **MCP Server**: @modelcontextprotocol/sdk, TypeScript, Node.js 18+
- **Development**: eslint, prettier, jest (optional)

---

## Recommended Next Steps

### Immediate Actions (This Session)

**1. MCP Server Setup** (1-2 hours) 🎯
```bash
cd mcp-server
npm install
npm run build
npm start  # Test server
```

**2. Push Untracked Session Summary** (5 min)
```bash
git add doc/sessions/SESSION_SUMMARY_2025-10-28_PHASE1_COMPLETE.md
git commit -m "docs: add Phase 1 completion session summary"
git push origin main
```

**3. Test MCP Server with Claude** (1 hour)
- Configure MCP client to use at-bot-mcp-server
- Test tool discovery
- Execute sample tools
- Verify output formats

### Short Term (This Week)

**4. JSON Output Implementation** (6-8 hours)
- Add `--format json` flag across all commands
- Update all CLI functions for structured output
- Write tests and examples
- Document output schemas

**5. Debian Package Creation** (4-6 hours)
- Set up debian/ packaging
- Test installation flow
- Create repository configuration

**6. Documentation Build** (2-3 hours)
- Test build-docs.sh output
- Fix any pandoc issues
- Publish documentation

### Medium Term (Next 2-4 Weeks)

**7. Release v0.4.0** with:
- MCP server published to npm
- JSON output format
- Debian package available
- Enhanced documentation

**8. Begin Batch Operations**
**9. Advanced Configuration**
**10. Rate Limiting**

---

## Strategic Considerations

### Strengths ✅
- Secure, well-architected codebase
- Comprehensive documentation
- Strong test coverage
- Clear roadmap (PLAN.md)
- Modular design (easy to extend)
- Both CLI + MCP interfaces

### Opportunities 🎯
- npm registry publication
- Linux distribution packaging (apt, snap)
- macOS via Homebrew
- Docker Hub publication
- CI/CD automation
- Community contributions

### Risks & Mitigations ⚠️
1. **AT Protocol API Changes** → Version compatibility matrix, automated testing
2. **Credential Security** → Use system keyrings, deprecate base64 obfuscation
3. **Adoption Inertia** → Marketing, documentation, examples
4. **Contributor Burnout** → Clear contribution guidelines, distributed leadership

---

## Documentation Organization

All documentation follows the established structure:

- **Root Level**: README, PLAN, AGENTS, STYLE, TODO (strategic docs)
- **doc/**: Feature guides (CONFIG, DEBUG, SECURITY, TESTING, ENCRYPTION, etc.)
- **doc/sessions/**: Development session summaries and work logs
- **doc/progress/**: Progress reports and milestone updates
- **mcp-server/docs/**: MCP-specific documentation
- **examples/**: Usage examples and automation patterns

---

## Success Criteria for Phase 2

To complete Phase 2, we need:

- ✅ MCP server published to npm
- ✅ JSON output format implemented
- ✅ At least one distribution package (deb, homebrew)
- ✅ Documentation generated and published
- ✅ 100+ active users testing features
- ✅ Community contributions emerging
- ✅ CI/CD pipeline automated

---

## Conclusion

AT-bot is in an excellent position to move from Phase 1 to Phase 2. The core functionality is solid, MCP infrastructure is in place, and the codebase is well-organized and documented.

**The immediate priority is MCP server deployment**, which will unlock AI agent integration and significantly expand the project's reach.

**Key Actions**:
1. ✅ Build MCP server (npm install && npm run build)
2. ✅ Push untracked files to git
3. ✅ Test MCP server with AI clients
4. ✅ Begin JSON output format implementation
5. ✅ Start packaging for Linux/macOS

---

**Status**: Ready for Phase 2 🚀  
**Next Review**: After MCP server deployment + JSON format implementation  
**Timeline**: 2-4 weeks to Phase 2 completion  

---

*Generated by Project Review - October 28, 2025*

Commit message:

feat: Complete project rebranding and VS Code extension implementation
Major Changes:
- Complete rebranding from AT-bot to atproto across all files
- Integrated MCP server into main binary (atproto mcp-server)
- Updated all documentation with new repository URLs
- Fixed configuration paths and shell completion scripts

VS Code Extension (NEW):
- Complete TypeScript extension with MCP integration
- 29 AT Protocol tools for AI agents via McpServerDefinitionProvider
- Secure authentication using VS Code SecretStorage API
- Command palette integration with 4 core commands
- Zero-configuration setup with GitHub Copilot
- Auto-discovery for development vs production environments

Repository Structure:
- Updated .gitignore to exclude node_modules and build artifacts
- Removed rebranding checklist (completed)
- Moved VS Code extension docs to project root
- Added CC0 license for extension

Files: 69 modified, 11 added, 3 deleted, 3 renamed
Extension: Compiled, packaged (atproto-0.1.0.vsix), ready for testing

doc/sessions/PROJECT_REVIEW_2025-10-28.md, after:

# atproto Project Review and Strategic Plan
**Date**: October 28, 2025  
**Status**: Phase 1 Core Features Complete ✅  
**Next Phase**: Phase 2 - Core Features + MCP Integration  

---

## Executive Summary

atproto is a **POSIX-compliant CLI tool for Bluesky/AT Protocol automation** with a growing MCP (Model Context Protocol) server for AI agent integration. The project has successfully completed Phase 1 with core authentication, social features, and MCP infrastructure in place.

**Current Status**: 
- ✅ Phase 1 Complete (v0.1.0 - v0.3.0)
- 🔄 4 commits ahead of origin/main
- 📦 MCP server built and ready for npm install/build
- 🧪 10/10 CLI test suites passing (100%)
- 📚 Comprehensive documentation (README, PLAN, AGENTS, STYLE, TODO, MCP guides)

---

## Project Overview

### Core Components

**1. CLI Tool (`bin/atproto`)**
- Main entry point for user interactions
- Commands: login, logout, whoami, post, feed, follow, etc.
- Session management with AES-256-CBC encryption
- Dual-path library loading (dev & installed modes)
- 27 core functions implemented

**2. Core Library (`lib/atproto.sh`)**
- ~1,850 lines of reusable shell functions
- AT Protocol API communication
- Session management and credentials handling
- Post creation/management, feed reading
- Profile management, follow/unfollow, search
- Media upload, block/mute operations

**3. Supporting Libraries**
- `lib/crypt.sh` - AES-256-CBC encryption for credentials
- `lib/cli-utils.sh` - Error handling and input validation
- `lib/config.sh` - Configuration management
- `lib/doc.sh` - Documentation compilation

**4. MCP Server (`mcp-server/`)**
- TypeScript/Node.js implementation
- 27 MCP tools across 8 modules:
  - Auth (4 tools)
  - Content/Engagement (5+5 tools)
  - Social (6 tools)
  - Search (3 tools)
  - Media (4 tools)
  - Profile (4 tools)
  - Feed (1 tool)
- Stdio communication with MCP protocol
- Shell executor for atproto CLI integration

**5. Testing & Quality**
- 10 CLI test suites (86+ tests)
- Manual test helper (`tests/manual_test.sh`)
- MCP tool validation tests
- 100% test pass rate
- Shell completion scripts (bash/zsh)

**6. Documentation**
- Strategic docs: README, PLAN, AGENTS, STYLE, TODO
- Feature guides: CONFIG, DEBUG, SECURITY, TESTING, etc.
- MCP guides: QUICKSTART, TOOLS, INTEGRATION
- Session summaries and progress reports
- Documentation build system (`scripts/build-docs.sh`)

---

## What's Complete ✅

### Phase 1 Achievements (v0.1.0 - v0.3.0)

**Authentication & Security**
- ✅ Secure login/logout
- ✅ Session persistence with AES-256-CBC encryption
- ✅ Optional credential saving (base64 obfuscation for dev)
- ✅ Backward compatibility for old base64 credentials
- ✅ Debug mode support (plaintext for development)
- ✅ File permissions enforced (600 on sensitive files)

**Core Social Features**
- ✅ Post creation (text posts)
- ✅ Timeline/feed reading with limit support
- ✅ Follow/unfollow users
- ✅ Get followers/following lists
- ✅ Block/unblock users
- ✅ Mute/unmute users
- ✅ Post engagement (like, repost, reply, delete)
- ✅ Media upload (images, videos)
- ✅ Profile management (view, edit, avatars)
- ✅ Search (posts, users)

**MCP Server (22+ Tools)**
- ✅ Complete MCP architecture designed
- ✅ 27 tools implemented across 8 modules
- ✅ Stdio communication ready
- ✅ Tool discovery and execution
- ✅ Error handling and response formatting
- ✅ Shell executor for atproto CLI integration

**Developer Experience**
- ✅ Shell completions (bash/zsh)
- ✅ Enhanced error handling with helpful messages
- ✅ Command-specific help system
- ✅ Input validation functions
- ✅ Consistent error codes for scripting

**Documentation & Quality**
- ✅ Documentation build system with config
- ✅ Comprehensive test coverage (100% pass rate)
- ✅ Security guidelines documented
- ✅ Testing procedures documented
- ✅ MCP integration guide
- ✅ Contributing guidelines
- ✅ Project roadmap (PLAN.md)
- ✅ Agent integration patterns (AGENTS.md)

---

## What's Next - Phase 2 Priority Items

### High Priority (Blocker for v0.4.0 release)

#### 1. **MCP Server npm Build & Deployment** ⏳
**Status**: Code complete, needs setup  
**Work**:
- [ ] Run `npm install` in mcp-server/
- [ ] Run `npm run build` to compile TypeScript
- [ ] Verify dist/ directory created
- [ ] Test MCP server startup: `npm start`
- [ ] Create .npmrc for publishing
- [ ] Test with Claude/Copilot MCP client
- [ ] Publish to npm registry (@atbot/mcp-server)

**Estimated Effort**: 2-4 hours  
**Impact**: Enables AI agent integration; major milestone

#### 2. **JSON Output Format** ⏳
**Status**: Planned, not started  
**Work**:
- [ ] Add `--format json` flag to all commands
- [ ] Implement JSON output in lib/atproto.sh functions
- [ ] Update bin/atproto to handle format flag
- [ ] Add examples to documentation
- [ ] Write tests for JSON output
- [ ] Document output schemas

**Estimated Effort**: 6-8 hours  
**Impact**: Enables scripting and automation; required for Phase 2

#### 3. **Debian Package (.deb)** ⏳
**Status**: Planned, not started  
**Work**:
- [ ] Create debian/ directory with package config
- [ ] Write control file with metadata
- [ ] Create install/postinst scripts
- [ ] Set up build pipeline
- [ ] Test installation and uninstallation
- [ ] Create repository configuration
- [ ] Publish to PPA or GitHub releases

**Estimated Effort**: 4-6 hours  
**Impact**: Easier distribution for Linux users

#### 4. **Homebrew Formula** ⏳
**Status**: Planned, not started  
**Work**:
- [ ] Create homebrew-atproto tap
- [ ] Write formula.rb with version/checksums
- [ ] Test installation: `brew install p3nGu1nZz/atproto/atproto`
- [ ] Document tap installation
- [ ] Set up auto-update mechanism

**Estimated Effort**: 3-4 hours  
**Impact**: Easier distribution for macOS users

#### 5. **Documentation Generation** ⏳
**Status**: Build system ready, needs execution  
**Work**:
- [ ] Run `scripts/build-docs.sh` to test output
- [ ] Fix any pandoc issues (YAML parsing)
- [ ] Generate HTML documentation
- [ ] Review output layout and styling
- [ ] Publish to GitHub Pages or docs.atbot.io
- [ ] Add to CI/CD pipeline

**Estimated Effort**: 2-3 hours  
**Impact**: Better documentation accessibility

### Medium Priority (v0.4.0 - v0.5.0)

#### 6. **Batch Operations**
- [ ] Implement batch_post for multiple posts
- [ ] Implement batch_follow for bulk following
- [ ] Implement batch_schedule for scheduled operations
- [ ] Add file input support (JSON/CSV)

**Estimated Effort**: 8-10 hours

#### 7. **Advanced Configuration**
- [ ] Enhanced configuration file support (~/.config/atproto/config.json)
- [ ] Environment variable interpolation
- [ ] Profile management (work/personal accounts)
- [ ] Preset commands for common workflows

**Estimated Effort**: 6-8 hours

#### 8. **Rate Limiting & Retry Logic**
- [ ] Intelligent rate limit handling
- [ ] Exponential backoff for retries
- [ ] Rate limit status checking
- [ ] Queue system for bulk operations

**Estimated Effort**: 6-8 hours

#### 9. **Caching System**
- [ ] Response caching for frequently accessed data
- [ ] Cache invalidation strategy
- [ ] Cache statistics and debugging
- [ ] Configurable cache TTL

**Estimated Effort**: 4-6 hours

#### 10. **Docker Support**
- [ ] Create Dockerfile for containerized usage
- [ ] Docker Compose for development
- [ ] Multi-stage builds for optimization
- [ ] Publish to Docker Hub

**Estimated Effort**: 3-4 hours

---

## Current Code Status

### Git Status
```
Branch: main (4 commits ahead of origin/main)
Untracked: doc/sessions/SESSION_SUMMARY_2025-10-28_PHASE1_COMPLETE.md

Recent commits:
- 62348bf feat: add documentation build system
- aa50cbc feat(docs): implement documentation compilation
- 20b37ad feat: add shell completion and enhanced CLI
- 92a7642 docs: update MCP documentation
```

### File Structure Summary
```
atproto/
├── bin/               # CLI executable
├── lib/               # Core libraries (1,850+ lines)
├── mcp-server/        # MCP server (TypeScript)
│   ├── src/           # Source code (27 tools)
│   ├── dist/          # Compiled output (ready)
│   ├── package.json   # npm config (not installed)
│   └── tests/         # Tool validation
├── tests/             # CLI tests (10 suites, all passing)
├── scripts/           # Build/installation scripts
├── doc/               # Documentation
│   ├── sessions/      # Session summaries
│   ├── progress/      # Progress reports
│   └── *.md           # Feature guides
├── examples/          # Usage examples
└── [root docs]        # PLAN, AGENTS, STYLE, etc.
```

### Test Coverage
```
✅ test_cli_basic         - Basic CLI operations
✅ test_config            - Configuration handling
✅ test_encryption        - AES-256-CBC encryption
✅ test_follow            - Follow/unfollow
✅ test_followers         - Followers/following lists
✅ test_library           - Core library functions
✅ test_media_upload      - Media operations
✅ test_post_feed         - Post/feed operations
✅ test_profile           - Profile management
✅ test_search            - Search functionality

Total: 86+ tests, 100% pass rate
```

---

## Key Metrics & Statistics

### Code Statistics
- **Core library**: ~1,850 lines (lib/atproto.sh)
- **CLI tool**: ~359 lines (bin/atproto)
- **Supporting libraries**: ~600 lines
- **MCP server**: ~1,200 lines (TypeScript)
- **Test coverage**: 86+ tests across 10 suites
- **Total shell functions**: 27+
- **MCP tools**: 27 across 8 modules
- **Documentation pages**: 15+ markdown files

### Architecture Quality
- ✅ POSIX-compliant
- ✅ Dual-path library loading maintained
- ✅ Modular tool organization
- ✅ Consistent error handling
- ✅ Security-first design
- ✅ Comprehensive documentation

### Dependencies
- **Core**: curl, jq (minimal!)
- **MCP Server**: @modelcontextprotocol/sdk, TypeScript, Node.js 18+
- **Development**: eslint, prettier, jest (optional)

---

## Recommended Next Steps

### Immediate Actions (This Session)

**1. MCP Server Setup** (1-2 hours) 🎯
```bash
cd mcp-server
npm install
npm run build
npm start  # Test server
```

**2. Push Untracked Session Summary** (5 min)
```bash
git add doc/sessions/SESSION_SUMMARY_2025-10-28_PHASE1_COMPLETE.md
git commit -m "docs: add Phase 1 completion session summary"
git push origin main
```

**3. Test MCP Server with Claude** (1 hour)
- Configure MCP client to use atproto-mcp-server
- Test tool discovery
- Execute sample tools
- Verify output formats

### Short Term (This Week)

**4. JSON Output Implementation** (6-8 hours)
- Add `--format json` flag across all commands
- Update all CLI functions for structured output
- Write tests and examples
- Document output schemas

**5. Debian Package Creation** (4-6 hours)
- Set up debian/ packaging
- Test installation flow
- Create repository configuration

**6. Documentation Build** (2-3 hours)
- Test build-docs.sh output
- Fix any pandoc issues
- Publish documentation

### Medium Term (Next 2-4 Weeks)

**7. Release v0.4.0** with:
- MCP server published to npm
- JSON output format
- Debian package available
- Enhanced documentation

**8. Begin Batch Operations**
**9. Advanced Configuration**
**10. Rate Limiting**

---

## Strategic Considerations

### Strengths ✅
- Secure, well-architected codebase
- Comprehensive documentation
- Strong test coverage
- Clear roadmap (PLAN.md)
- Modular design (easy to extend)
- Both CLI + MCP interfaces

### Opportunities 🎯
- npm registry publication
- Linux distribution packaging (apt, snap)
- macOS via Homebrew
- Docker Hub publication
- CI/CD automation
- Community contributions

### Risks & Mitigations ⚠️
1. **AT Protocol API Changes** → Version compatibility matrix, automated testing
2. **Credential Security** → Use system keyrings, deprecate base64 obfuscation
3. **Adoption Inertia** → Marketing, documentation, examples
4. **Contributor Burnout** → Clear contribution guidelines, distributed leadership

---

## Documentation Organization

All documentation follows the established structure:

- **Root Level**: README, PLAN, AGENTS, STYLE, TODO (strategic docs)
- **doc/**: Feature guides (CONFIG, DEBUG, SECURITY, TESTING, ENCRYPTION, etc.)
- **doc/sessions/**: Development session summaries and work logs
- **doc/progress/**: Progress reports and milestone updates
- **mcp-server/docs/**: MCP-specific documentation
- **examples/**: Usage examples and automation patterns

---

## Success Criteria for Phase 2

To complete Phase 2, we need:

- ✅ MCP server published to npm
- ✅ JSON output format implemented
- ✅ At least one distribution package (deb, homebrew)
- ✅ Documentation generated and published
- ✅ 100+ active users testing features
- ✅ Community contributions emerging
- ✅ CI/CD pipeline automated

---

## Conclusion

atproto is in an excellent position to move from Phase 1 to Phase 2. The core functionality is solid, MCP infrastructure is in place, and the codebase is well-organized and documented.

**The immediate priority is MCP server deployment**, which will unlock AI agent integration and significantly expand the project's reach.

**Key Actions**:
1. ✅ Build MCP server (npm install && npm run build)
2. ✅ Push untracked files to git
3. ✅ Test MCP server with AI clients
4. ✅ Begin JSON output format implementation
5. ✅ Start packaging for Linux/macOS

---

**Status**: Ready for Phase 2 🚀  
**Next Review**: After MCP server deployment + JSON format implementation  
**Timeline**: 2-4 weeks to Phase 2 completion  

---

*Generated by Project Review - October 28, 2025*
