doc/sessions/SESSION_SUMMARY_2025-10-28_ENCRYPTION.md, before:

# Session Summary: AES-256-CBC Encryption Implementation
**Date:** October 28, 2025  
**Focus:** Security Upgrade from Base64 to Proper Encryption

## Session Overview

This session focused on upgrading AT-bot's credential storage security from simple base64 encoding to industry-standard **AES-256-CBC encryption** with PBKDF2 key derivation and random salts.

## Key Achievements

### ✅ Security Enhancement Completed

1. **AES-256-CBC Encryption Implemented**
   - Industry-standard encryption algorithm (NSA-approved for TOP SECRET)
   - PBKDF2 key derivation for computational hardening
   - Random salt per encryption operation
   - 64-character random encryption key from `/dev/urandom`

2. **Backward Compatibility Maintained**
   - Old base64 credentials still work
   - Automatic detection of old format
   - Warning shown to encourage migration
   - Graceful migration path

3. **Comprehensive Testing Added**
   - Created `tests/test_encryption.sh`
   - Tests encryption/decryption round-trip
   - Verifies key consistency
   - Confirms salt randomness
   - All tests passing ✓

4. **Complete Documentation Created**
   - `doc/ENCRYPTION.md` - Comprehensive encryption guide
   - Updated `README.md` with security emphasis
   - Updated `doc/TESTING.md` with encryption tests
   - Updated `doc/DEBUG_MODE.md` with encryption examples

## Technical Implementation

### Files Modified

1. **lib/atproto.sh** (517 lines)
   - Added `ENCRYPTION_KEY_FILE` configuration constant
   - Implemented `get_encryption_key()` function
   - Implemented `encrypt_data()` using OpenSSL AES-256-CBC
   - Implemented `decrypt_data()` with error handling
   - Rewrote `save_credentials()` to use encryption
   - Rewrote `load_credentials()` with decryption + backward compatibility
   - Updated `clear_credentials()` to warn about encryption key

2. **tests/test_encryption.sh** (NEW - 82 lines)
   - Tests encryption round-trip
   - Verifies key generation
   - Confirms salt randomness
   - Validates OpenSSL availability

3. **doc/ENCRYPTION.md** (NEW - 300+ lines)
   - Detailed encryption specifications
   - Security properties and limitations
   - Threat model analysis
   - Comparison with other methods
   - Best practices guide
   - Future enhancement plans

### Encryption Specifications

```
Algorithm: AES-256-CBC
Key Size: 256 bits (32 bytes)
Block Size: 128 bits (16 bytes)
Mode: CBC (Cipher Block Chaining)
Key Derivation: PBKDF2
Salt: Random per operation
Implementation: OpenSSL 3.x
```

### File Structure

```
~/.config/at-bot/
├── session.json           # Session tokens (unchanged)
├── credentials.json       # Encrypted credentials
│   ├── identifier         # Plaintext username
│   ├── password_encrypted # AES-256-CBC encrypted password
│   ├── encryption         # "aes-256-cbc"
│   ├── created           # Timestamp
│   └── note              # Documentation string
└── .key                  # Encryption key (600 permissions)
```

## Security Analysis

### ✅ Strengths

- **Strong Encryption**: AES-256 is industry standard, NSA-approved
- **Random Salt**: Different ciphertext each time, prevents rainbow tables
- **Key Derivation**: PBKDF2 makes brute force computationally expensive
- **File Permissions**: Mode 600 protects at OS level
- **No Plaintext**: Passwords never stored unencrypted on disk

### ⚠️ Limitations

- **Key on Same Machine**: Encryption key stored alongside encrypted data
- **Not Hardware-Based**: No TPM/secure enclave usage
- **Single-Machine**: Key is machine-specific, not portable
- **Memory Exposure**: Decrypted password exists in process memory
- **OpenSSL Dependency**: Requires OpenSSL to be installed

### Threat Model

**Protected Against:**
- ✅ Casual file viewers
- ✅ Accidental exposure
- ✅ Basic file theft
- ✅ Rainbow table attacks
- ✅ Simple brute force

**NOT Protected Against:**
- ❌ Root/admin access to machine
- ❌ Memory dumps by privileged users
- ❌ Sophisticated malware
- ❌ Physical machine theft with access
- ❌ Nation-state actors

## Test Results

### All Tests Passing ✓

```bash
$ make test

================================
AT-bot Test Suite
================================

✓ test_cli_basic
✓ test_encryption
✓ test_library
✓ test_post_feed

================================
Tests passed: 4
Tests failed: 0
Total tests:  4
================================
All tests passed!
```

### Encryption Test Details

```bash
$ ./tests/test_encryption.sh

Testing AT-bot Encryption System
================================

✓ Encryption successful
✓ Decryption successful
✓ Key generation consistent (64 characters)
✓ Encryption uses random salt (different ciphertext each time)

All encryption tests passed! ✓
```

## User Testing Verified

User successfully tested login with DEBUG mode:

```bash
$ DEBUG=1 at-bot login
# Showed plaintext password for verification
# Exit Code: 0 (success)
# Credentials encrypted and saved
```

## Documentation Updates

### New Documents

1. **doc/ENCRYPTION.md**
   - Complete encryption specification
   - Security properties analysis
   - Threat model documentation
   - Comparison table with alternatives
   - Best practices guide
   - Future enhancement roadmap

### Updated Documents

1. **README.md**
   - Expanded security section
   - Link to encryption documentation
   - Production deployment notes
   - Threat model summary

2. **doc/TESTING.md**
   - Added encryption test suite documentation
   - Updated all base64 references to AES-256-CBC
   - Added security testing section

3. **doc/DEBUG_MODE.md**
   - Updated examples to show encryption
   - Added encryption key display in debug mode
   - Updated security warnings

4. **TODO.md**
   - Marked encryption tasks as completed ✅
   - Updated task descriptions to reflect AES-256-CBC

## Progress Update

### Tasks Completed This Session: 3

✅ **Task #12** - Secure token storage upgraded to AES-256-CBC  
✅ **Task #13** - Test coverage expanded (encryption test suite)  
✅ **Documentation** - Comprehensive encryption guide created

### Overall Project Progress: 7/40 (18%)

✅ Post creation functionality  
✅ Timeline/feed reading  
✅ Secure credential storage (AES-256-CBC)  
✅ MCP server foundation  
✅ JSON-RPC 2.0 protocol  
✅ Authentication MCP tools  
✅ Comprehensive test coverage  

## Security Recommendations

### For Development/Testing (Current Use Case)
✅ **AES-256-CBC encryption is appropriate**
- Good balance of security and convenience
- Better than base64/plaintext
- Suitable for personal machines

### For Production Deployments
⚠️ **Use environment variables or secret management**

```bash
# Recommended for production
export BLUESKY_HANDLE="bot.bsky.social"
export BLUESKY_PASSWORD="app-password"
```

Or use dedicated services:
- HashiCorp Vault
- AWS Secrets Manager
- Azure Key Vault
- Google Secret Manager

### Future Enhancements (Roadmap)
1. System keyring integration (GNOME/KDE/macOS/Windows)
2. Hardware security module (HSM) support
3. TPM/secure enclave integration
4. Multi-factor authentication support

## Code Quality

### Shellcheck Status
✅ All shell scripts pass shellcheck with no errors

### Code Style
✅ Follows STYLE.md conventions
- Proper function documentation
- Consistent naming conventions
- Comprehensive error handling
- Security-focused implementation

### Test Coverage
✅ 4 test suites covering:
- CLI interface
- Library functions
- Post/feed functionality
- **Encryption system (NEW)**

## Next Steps

### Immediate (Ready Now)
1. Test complete login flow with real Bluesky account
2. Verify credential save/load with encryption
3. Test backward compatibility with old base64 format

### Short-term (Next Session)
1. Implement follow/unfollow commands
2. Add search functionality
3. Implement reply functionality
4. Expand MCP tools (content + feed categories)

### Medium-term (Phase 2)
1. CI/CD pipeline setup
2. Multi-platform packaging
3. System keyring integration
4. Advanced automation features

## Resources

### Documentation References
- [doc/ENCRYPTION.md](doc/ENCRYPTION.md) - Complete encryption guide
- [doc/TESTING.md](doc/TESTING.md) - Testing procedures
- [doc/DEBUG_MODE.md](doc/DEBUG_MODE.md) - Debug mode usage
- [STYLE.md](STYLE.md) - Coding standards
- [TODO.md](TODO.md) - Project roadmap

### Technical References
- OpenSSL AES-256-CBC documentation
- NIST encryption standards
- PBKDF2 specification
- AT Protocol security guidelines

## Conclusion

This session successfully upgraded AT-bot's credential storage from basic base64 encoding to **industry-standard AES-256-CBC encryption**, providing significantly better security for development and testing use cases while maintaining backward compatibility and adding comprehensive documentation.

The encryption implementation:
- ✅ Uses proven cryptographic standards
- ✅ Includes proper key derivation (PBKDF2)
- ✅ Applies random salts to prevent analysis
- ✅ Maintains backward compatibility
- ✅ Is thoroughly tested and documented
- ✅ Provides clear security guidance

**Status**: All tests passing, production-ready for development use case.

---

**Session Duration:** ~2 hours  
**Files Modified:** 7  
**Files Created:** 2  
**Tests Added:** 1 suite (4 test cases)  
**Documentation Pages:** 300+ lines added  
**Test Status:** 4/4 passing ✓

Commit message:

feat: Complete project rebranding and VS Code extension implementation
Major Changes:
- Complete rebranding from AT-bot to atproto across all files
- Integrated MCP server into main binary (atproto mcp-server)
- Updated all documentation with new repository URLs
- Fixed configuration paths and shell completion scripts

VS Code Extension (NEW):
- Complete TypeScript extension with MCP integration
- 29 AT Protocol tools for AI agents via McpServerDefinitionProvider
- Secure authentication using VS Code SecretStorage API
- Command palette integration with 4 core commands
- Zero-configuration setup with GitHub Copilot
- Auto-discovery for development vs production environments

Repository Structure:
- Updated .gitignore to exclude node_modules and build artifacts
- Removed rebranding checklist (completed)
- Moved VS Code extension docs to project root
- Added CC0 license for extension

Files: 69 modified, 11 added, 3 deleted, 3 renamed
Extension: Compiled, packaged (atproto-0.1.0.vsix), ready for testing

doc/sessions/SESSION_SUMMARY_2025-10-28_ENCRYPTION.md, after:

# Session Summary: AES-256-CBC Encryption Implementation
**Date:** October 28, 2025  
**Focus:** Security Upgrade from Base64 to Proper Encryption

## Session Overview

This session focused on upgrading atproto's credential storage security from simple base64 encoding to industry-standard **AES-256-CBC encryption** with PBKDF2 key derivation and random salts.

## Key Achievements

### ✅ Security Enhancement Completed

1. **AES-256-CBC Encryption Implemented**
   - Industry-standard encryption algorithm (NSA-approved for TOP SECRET)
   - PBKDF2 key derivation for computational hardening
   - Random salt per encryption operation
   - 64-character random encryption key from `/dev/urandom`

2. **Backward Compatibility Maintained**
   - Old base64 credentials still work
   - Automatic detection of old format
   - Warning shown to encourage migration
   - Graceful migration path

3. **Comprehensive Testing Added**
   - Created `tests/test_encryption.sh`
   - Tests encryption/decryption round-trip
   - Verifies key consistency
   - Confirms salt randomness
   - All tests passing ✓

4. **Complete Documentation Created**
   - `doc/ENCRYPTION.md` - Comprehensive encryption guide
   - Updated `README.md` with security emphasis
   - Updated `doc/TESTING.md` with encryption tests
   - Updated `doc/DEBUG_MODE.md` with encryption examples

## Technical Implementation

### Files Modified

1. **lib/atproto.sh** (517 lines)
   - Added `ENCRYPTION_KEY_FILE` configuration constant
   - Implemented `get_encryption_key()` function
   - Implemented `encrypt_data()` using OpenSSL AES-256-CBC
   - Implemented `decrypt_data()` with error handling
   - Rewrote `save_credentials()` to use encryption
   - Rewrote `load_credentials()` with decryption + backward compatibility
   - Updated `clear_credentials()` to warn about encryption key

2. **tests/test_encryption.sh** (NEW - 82 lines)
   - Tests encryption round-trip
   - Verifies key generation
   - Confirms salt randomness
   - Validates OpenSSL availability

3. **doc/ENCRYPTION.md** (NEW - 300+ lines)
   - Detailed encryption specifications
   - Security properties and limitations
   - Threat model analysis
   - Comparison with other methods
   - Best practices guide
   - Future enhancement plans

### Encryption Specifications

```
Algorithm: AES-256-CBC
Key Size: 256 bits (32 bytes)
Block Size: 128 bits (16 bytes)
Mode: CBC (Cipher Block Chaining)
Key Derivation: PBKDF2
Salt: Random per operation
Implementation: OpenSSL 3.x
```

### File Structure

```
~/.config/atproto/
├── session.json           # Session tokens (unchanged)
├── credentials.json       # Encrypted credentials
│   ├── identifier         # Plaintext username
│   ├── password_encrypted # AES-256-CBC encrypted password
│   ├── encryption         # "aes-256-cbc"
│   ├── created           # Timestamp
│   └── note              # Documentation string
└── .key                  # Encryption key (600 permissions)
```

## Security Analysis

### ✅ Strengths

- **Strong Encryption**: AES-256 is industry standard, NSA-approved
- **Random Salt**: Different ciphertext each time, prevents rainbow tables
- **Key Derivation**: PBKDF2 makes brute force computationally expensive
- **File Permissions**: Mode 600 protects at OS level
- **No Plaintext**: Passwords never stored unencrypted on disk

### ⚠️ Limitations

- **Key on Same Machine**: Encryption key stored alongside encrypted data
- **Not Hardware-Based**: No TPM/secure enclave usage
- **Single-Machine**: Key is machine-specific, not portable
- **Memory Exposure**: Decrypted password exists in process memory
- **OpenSSL Dependency**: Requires OpenSSL to be installed

### Threat Model

**Protected Against:**
- ✅ Casual file viewers
- ✅ Accidental exposure
- ✅ Basic file theft
- ✅ Rainbow table attacks
- ✅ Simple brute force

**NOT Protected Against:**
- ❌ Root/admin access to machine
- ❌ Memory dumps by privileged users
- ❌ Sophisticated malware
- ❌ Physical machine theft with access
- ❌ Nation-state actors

## Test Results

### All Tests Passing ✓

```bash
$ make test

================================
atproto Test Suite
================================

✓ test_cli_basic
✓ test_encryption
✓ test_library
✓ test_post_feed

================================
Tests passed: 4
Tests failed: 0
Total tests:  4
================================
All tests passed!
```

### Encryption Test Details

```bash
$ ./tests/test_encryption.sh

Testing atproto Encryption System
================================

✓ Encryption successful
✓ Decryption successful
✓ Key generation consistent (64 characters)
✓ Encryption uses random salt (different ciphertext each time)

All encryption tests passed! ✓
```

## User Testing Verified

User successfully tested login with DEBUG mode:

```bash
$ DEBUG=1 atproto login
# Showed plaintext password for verification
# Exit Code: 0 (success)
# Credentials encrypted and saved
```

## Documentation Updates

### New Documents

1. **doc/ENCRYPTION.md**
   - Complete encryption specification
   - Security properties analysis
   - Threat model documentation
   - Comparison table with alternatives
   - Best practices guide
   - Future enhancement roadmap

### Updated Documents

1. **README.md**
   - Expanded security section
   - Link to encryption documentation
   - Production deployment notes
   - Threat model summary

2. **doc/TESTING.md**
   - Added encryption test suite documentation
   - Updated all base64 references to AES-256-CBC
   - Added security testing section

3. **doc/DEBUG_MODE.md**
   - Updated examples to show encryption
   - Added encryption key display in debug mode
   - Updated security warnings

4. **TODO.md**
   - Marked encryption tasks as completed ✅
   - Updated task descriptions to reflect AES-256-CBC

## Progress Update

### Tasks Completed This Session: 3

✅ **Task #12** - Secure token storage upgraded to AES-256-CBC  
✅ **Task #13** - Test coverage expanded (encryption test suite)  
✅ **Documentation** - Comprehensive encryption guide created

### Overall Project Progress: 7/40 (18%)

✅ Post creation functionality  
✅ Timeline/feed reading  
✅ Secure credential storage (AES-256-CBC)  
✅ MCP server foundation  
✅ JSON-RPC 2.0 protocol  
✅ Authentication MCP tools  
✅ Comprehensive test coverage  

## Security Recommendations

### For Development/Testing (Current Use Case)
✅ **AES-256-CBC encryption is appropriate**
- Good balance of security and convenience
- Better than base64/plaintext
- Suitable for personal machines

### For Production Deployments
⚠️ **Use environment variables or secret management**

```bash
# Recommended for production
export BLUESKY_HANDLE="bot.bsky.social"
export BLUESKY_PASSWORD="app-password"
```

Or use dedicated services:
- HashiCorp Vault
- AWS Secrets Manager
- Azure Key Vault
- Google Secret Manager

### Future Enhancements (Roadmap)
1. System keyring integration (GNOME/KDE/macOS/Windows)
2. Hardware security module (HSM) support
3. TPM/secure enclave integration
4. Multi-factor authentication support

## Code Quality

### Shellcheck Status
✅ All shell scripts pass shellcheck with no errors

### Code Style
✅ Follows STYLE.md conventions
- Proper function documentation
- Consistent naming conventions
- Comprehensive error handling
- Security-focused implementation

### Test Coverage
✅ 4 test suites covering:
- CLI interface
- Library functions
- Post/feed functionality
- **Encryption system (NEW)**

## Next Steps

### Immediate (Ready Now)
1. Test complete login flow with real Bluesky account
2. Verify credential save/load with encryption
3. Test backward compatibility with old base64 format

### Short-term (Next Session)
1. Implement follow/unfollow commands
2. Add search functionality
3. Implement reply functionality
4. Expand MCP tools (content + feed categories)

### Medium-term (Phase 2)
1. CI/CD pipeline setup
2. Multi-platform packaging
3. System keyring integration
4. Advanced automation features

## Resources

### Documentation References
- [doc/ENCRYPTION.md](doc/ENCRYPTION.md) - Complete encryption guide
- [doc/TESTING.md](doc/TESTING.md) - Testing procedures
- [doc/DEBUG_MODE.md](doc/DEBUG_MODE.md) - Debug mode usage
- [STYLE.md](STYLE.md) - Coding standards
- [TODO.md](TODO.md) - Project roadmap

### Technical References
- OpenSSL AES-256-CBC documentation
- NIST encryption standards
- PBKDF2 specification
- AT Protocol security guidelines

## Conclusion

This session successfully upgraded atproto's credential storage from basic base64 encoding to **industry-standard AES-256-CBC encryption**, providing significantly better security for development and testing use cases while maintaining backward compatibility and adding comprehensive documentation.

The encryption implementation:
- ✅ Uses proven cryptographic standards
- ✅ Includes proper key derivation (PBKDF2)
- ✅ Applies random salts to prevent analysis
- ✅ Maintains backward compatibility
- ✅ Is thoroughly tested and documented
- ✅ Provides clear security guidance

**Status**: All tests passing, production-ready for development use case.

---

**Session Duration:** ~2 hours  
**Files Modified:** 7  
**Files Created:** 2  
**Tests Added:** 1 suite (4 test cases)  
**Documentation Pages:** 300+ lines added  
**Test Status:** 4/4 passing ✓
